docs: write (how Kotlin JDSL is different from jOOq and QueryDSL) FAQ document (#671)
line/kotlin-jdsl: docs/en/faq/how-kotlin-jdsl-is-different-from-jooq-and-querydsl.md

# How is Kotlin JDSL different from jOOQ and QueryDSL?

> Unlike jOOq and QueryDSL, Kotlin JDSL does not generate a `Metadata Model (code generation) for writing queries.

Reviewer: I think the `jOOq` should be `jOOQ`

Author: Okay, I'll reflect on it!

> If you use code generation, you'll have to do the following.

Reviewer: How about this?

```suggestion
If you use code generation, you'll have to do the following:
```

Author: Okay, I'll reflect on it!

```
Modify tables / entities →
Compilation errors due to code and metacode mismatch →
Temporarily change all code associated with the modified code, e.g. by commenting it out, to make it compile.
Regenerate code
Remove the temporary code that was processed to pass compilation and replace it with working code.

> ```

Reviewer: Commenting is not required. Depending on how you run your Gradle task, you can generate metadata without commenting.

So I think it would be better to write something like this. 

Modify table and entities -> Entity modification causes compile error -> Run Maven or Gradle task to regenerate metadata -> Write query based on modified entity

This way we have to run a Maven or Gradle test to modify the entity and use the modified entity. This causes an interruption in development, which can interrupt your thoughts.

Author: That's something I was dissatisfied with when I wrote it too, I guess I didn't have an example of the essentials. Great, I've incorporated it.

> In addition, JPQL uses a string-based query writing method, so it can pass compilation but may cause errors when running the web application.

Reviewer: The context doesn't seem to fit. 

How about adding a sentence that connects the sentences?

"Then you might think about trying JPQL yourself, but that's not a good idea.

Author: oh! I definitely think it feels natural because I included that sentence.

> However, Line-JDSL allows you to write queries based on pure code rather than using string-based writing and code generation.

Reviewer: Why use Line-JDSL instead of Kotlin JDSL?

Author: Apparently it was created by `Line`, so I was a little confused about its official name. I'll fix that.

# How is Kotlin JDSL different from jOOQ and QueryDSL?

> Unlike jOOq and QueryDSL, Kotlin JDSL does not generate a `Metadata Model (code generation) for writing queries.

Author: I've always wondered, are you Korean? Are you American? I like you

> Unlike jOOq and QueryDSL, Kotlin JDSL does not generate a `Metadata Model (code generation) for writing queries.

Reviewer 2: I'm Korean, and we're in the same dev community chat room. 😅

> Unlike jOOq and QueryDSL, Kotlin JDSL does not generate a `Metadata Model (code generation) for writing queries.

Author: oh.. :) now I know you. haha

If you use code generation, you'll have to do the following:

```
Modify tables and entities →
Entity modification causes compile errors →

> Run Manven or Gradle task to regenerate the metadate →

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run Maven or Gradle task to regenerate the metadata →
```
Could you please fix it in Korean documentation as well?

Author: Well, I was in a hurry and missed some parts haha... I'll correct it.

Write query based on modified entity
```

Then you might think about trying JPQL yourself, but that might not be a good idea.

JPQL uses a string-based way of writing queries, which makes it impossible to detect errors at compile time.

However, the Kotlin JDSL uses code generation and pure code-based query construction rather than string-based construction.

This means that as soon as you modify an entity or field name, it is reflected in the query code, and the above inconvenience does not exist.

It also adopts an ORM-based, object-oriented query approach like JPQL, which supports specifications such as polymorphism and fetch joins.

Therefore, the way we write queries also relies on object names and fields to query, rather than querying the table/column itself.

Below is a table comparing the differences between Kotlin JDSL, QueryDSL, and jOOQ.

|                      | Kotlin JDSL | QueryDSL                                       | jOOQ                                           |
|----------------------|-------------|------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|

> | Code Generation      | ❌           | ✅                                              | ✅                                              | ✅ |

Reviewer 3: In my opinion, Code Generation itself is not good, but if it is marked with an X, it looks like JDSL is bad. I think it would be better to create a table that can highlight more advantages.

Author: Oh, you are so delicate!

I was thinking the same thing, rightly or wrongly, that the red X emoji would make anything about the benefits look negative.

Author: Well, when I was compiling the reviews, I realized that there were a few unnatural things that I wanted to exclude, such as the following. T.T

<img width="798" alt="image" src="https://github.com/line/kotlin-jdsl/assets/66164361/c5f00b5b-efde-47a9-923d-9258ace55e74">
